# A Rubric for Decentralization of DID Methods
By Joe Andrieu joe@legreq.com, Shannon Appelcline shannona@skotos.net, Amy Guy amy@rhiaro.co.uk, Joachim Lohkamp joachim@jolocom.com, Drummond Reed drummond.reed@evernym.com, Markus Sabadello markus@danubetech.com, Oliver Terbu oliver.terbu@consensys.net, and Kai Wagner kai@jolocom.com


## Abstract
The communities behind Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) bring together a diverse group of contributors, who have decidedly different notions of exactly what “decentralization” means. For some, the notion of a DID anchored to DNS is anathema, for others, DIDs that cannot be publicly verified are problematic. This debate about decentralization is a continuation of a similar, ongoing argument in cryptocurrency circles: the question of whether or not bitcoin or ethereum is more decentralized is a nearly endless source of argument. Rather than attempting to resolve this potentially unresolvable question, we propose a rubric — which is a scoring guide used to evaluate performance, a product, or a project — that teaches how to evaluate a given DID method according to one’s own requirements. Our goal is to develop a guide that minimizes judgment and bias. Rather than advocating particular solutions, the rubric presents a series of criteria which an evaluator can apply to any DID method based on their particular use cases. We also avoid reducing the evaluation to a single number because the criteria tend to be multidimensional and many of the options are not necessarily good or bad: it is the obligation of the evaluator to understand how each response in each criteria might illuminate favorable or unfavorable consequences for their needs. Finally, this rubric allows evaluating aspects of decentralization of a DID method, but it is not exhaustive, and does not cover other issues that may affect selection or adoption of a particular method, such as privacy or efficiency.
