# RWOT 9 Feedback Session

## Feedback cards

*(De-duped with minimal data loss as far as possible.)*

### What did we do well?

- Great conversations and paper topics.
- Event vs work balance.
- You listened to a competent woman. You let her actually lead.
- Github.
- It was a respectful space.
- The vegan dinners was def. the best part of the margins for me.
- Catering was fantastic.
- There's been an interesting mix of people.
- Aha and tips moment.
- Freedom in general to move inside the venue.
- Humanized agenda.
- Icebreaking: specific topic to discuss.
- Submitting paper in advance.
- You have done a good job of creating a sense of community and culture across a range of diverse groups with a narrow shared interest.
- The apology thing was fantastic!
- Pacing/freedom well balanced.
- Apologies - uncomfortable but good, timing was good, length was good.
- Great collaboration.
- Lots of pollinators.
- 4 days better than 3.
- Space for reconciliation and facilitation.

### What can we improve

- Group chat helped but not official.
- Hire conference coordinator.
- Do intros so people feel present and so people can know who is in room and find others who are into what they are into and know faces from mailing lists.
- The space is actively hostile to women and PIPOC.
- Have facilitators other than Chris & Joe.
- Listen to women leaders and address the fact they keep leaving and defecting.
- Understand diversity better and internalize knowledge about how to be more welcoming.
- Mentorship for newcomers.
- Newbie guide / introduction on Github.
- Accessible conference venue.
- Peer review for paper submission (mentorship).
- Shorter apology session.
- Talk more candidly about race without excessive white guilt.
- Intimidating.
- Some apologies felt coerced wrt quiet individuals.
- Logistics.md in github
- papers foreign to non-technical
- Too many distractions.
- Not clear about the mission.
- Soft skills before group selection.
- More organized facilitation.
- In reconciliation session, small then big might be better (let folks pre-choose their food, essentially).
- Create simple non-verbal signalling systems (hand signal, turn over a card etc.)
- Provide a way to interact for people who don't want to talk to the room out loud, eg. project a shared document or chat on the wall that people can write questions and comments in, and *make sure someone facilitating is reading it*.

### Suggestions and committments

- Finish paper within 4 weeks.
- Remain connected to community.
- Commit to active dialoge to resolve tensions across community.
- I've already committed to summarize improvements in this space and come with additional suggestions.
- Review papers and take notes (otherwise I forget soon) or even try to contact the author to have further diss.
- If I have the opportunity to participate again I will take it.
- Sponsorships.
- Will help bring RWOT to Asia.
- Write about why SSI is important for next time.

## Live notes

### What do we do well?

- Github
- Kyle Den Hartog: 4 days is more justifiable in terms of cost for flights, balance of travel, more events around
- Ian Grigg: I hate GitHub.
- Tobias: Demo night was really successful, good mix of number of demos and diversity and constrained with time people could stay and engage, huge success
- Steven from Holland: I support 4 days. The safety I felt to be heard and be part of thsi community as a non technical guy, was supported really well.
- I really liked the things off the main part, the choose your own adventure and lunch, gave me an opportunity to share something otherwise I wouldn't have been able to. The soft skills session, I learned something I hadn't expected to learn.
- May be old news but appreciate the focus on productive outcomes, that we're actually going to build something together, even if it doesn't get fully completed and polished. Inside of which you can still have all these other conversations, but it's in service of producing something to share, not just personal benefit.
- Appreciated conversations about inclusions and cultural biases, even if we are still embodying the problems at least the willingness to bring the discourse is a good start.
- I thought the pacing felt really nice. there's a timeline but we're not super strict about it and we keep time well but you know, felt really comfortable with that, just felt right.
- I sta down with a couple of people.. pacing felt right, felt like enough freedom in the schedule to take breaks and skip out on things. Apologies soft skills thing everyone seemed to like it, many folks said it felt uncomfortable but it was a good outcome, the timing was good so we didn't end up wallowing in pity for an hour, 15 - 30 mins felt right
- I've heard from a number of introverts that one of our goals to offer more space worked for them, but we have to find ways to feed back without having to stand in front of everyone.
  * Joe: We'd welcome ideas on how to better include introverts without requiring them to go to a microphone in the front of the room, which can be intimidating.
- The Thursday morning off was great.

### What can we improve?

- The acronym WEIRD: Western Educated Industrialised Rich Democratic - based on a psychology paper that said most psychology papers are flawed, valueless, because the test subjects are from rich western universities, students. They came up with the notion that WEIRD was a very small subset of the planet, so anything sociological doen in university student test subject context is not representative. I hypothesise that we are WEIRD. If we're going to identity it would be useful if we could have more representation from the rest of the planet on what they think identity is.
- Notes from cards written at lunch:
  * Folks that were new - it was intimidating to some people. They acknowledge that there might not be much you can do about it but it's super intimidating.
  * Papers are foreign to a non-tech audience, even the prereading, if you don't have a technical background - business - have no idea waht is being said. It was difficult for new folks .. wait there's a Signal channel? I understand they're not trying to exclude but it felt a little exclusive. We keep doing that but it's not the intent. 
  * During apologies session, some apologies felt coerced. I got a little inkling of this, okay the person has apologised and then the mic goes to someone and it's like what do you think about this. Some people that's the last thing they want to do in front of a large group. It's fine for people who are comfortable but for those who are not it's not good. Overall it was a positive session.
- Large number of people who do'nt want to use the comms channel because of privacy violations - phone numbers, real names. We have yet to find a single channel that meets our standards - maybe we have to write one.
- Building stuff.
- Grace: Missing was a way of making the suggestion or creating some protocols around if you have diverse opinions around something or explicit disagreements but it's the same something, facilitating people who disagree to sit down and bang it out. Creating some way .. if you know people are working on something you like but you don't like them, something that would help all the stakeholders to sit together if they disagree.
- I would have liked more focussed work time. I don't mean more time to work on the paper but more time where it was clear there would not be so much moving around because the noise level was quite high, I had trouble focussing.
- Related - I heard that this morning work 2 x 1.5h sessions with something in the middle it interrupted, didn't work for people, lost their flow.
- There's no elevator in this building. It's not a problem for many but it would certainly be a problem for some people.
- Lack of a printed schedule, poster, pinboard.
- Continuity with topic papers. we put a lot of effort articularting thoughts for the group and would like to see that carried through, feels like some of that is discarded, would like o capture and carrymomentuf forward.
- First time at this event. It's been incredible not just because of what wa splanned but because of all the things that weren't planned, conversations at lunch or before the day started. That's the most significant takeaway from me. So cool we have this event and all these people get together and talk about thes ideas. I wish there was some way we could continue to talk outside of these events. Discord or something for continuing conversations between events.
  - There is a Discourse.
  - Joe will send an email with the link.
- There's a perverse incentive in the paper submissions. They're submitted individually but once you come to the conference you're combining into groups and subset down. Once people go to the effort to write a paper there's a certain amount of ownership and wanting to do your thing. I'd allow people to submit group submission papers. That would remove some of the discord.
- On the topic of paper submissions: seems as an outsider, this community has four unconferences and no conferences. An opportunity exists tobuild upon the historical success of conference styles in an unconference way. I was surprised no-one presented their papers. Maybe pick the 5 best and vote on them and have traditional presentations as a way to bring those into the conference. The pain point is that the papers, there's a disincentive, this conference doesn't have presentations of the material.
  * Ian agreed with that
- Even though I have attended some of these before, I thought it was going to be a fairly minor thing to ?? a resolver doc. Had the experience of a bunch of missing contextual information. Shifting context.. Missing context from an abstract document to how is this expected to be used, there's a bunch of gaps that may be blind spots.
- As someone new, one pain point was terminology. I read several papers and I found myself struggling to realise two things are the same idea with different words. It would be great if we had a lexicon / mental models along with that, possibly with alternatives.
  - Mike Jones: That remains a painpoint for those who have been around.
- To give Joe and Christopher a break.. in terms of coordination of the event, it's a very hard activity. I loved the events and conversations that it sparked, I don't want that to go away, but in terms of understanding the details, dinners/times/address, be great if we hired a conference coordinator, then we would get 100% of Joe and Christopher and you wouldn't be so stressed.
- We need to announce events a lot sooner and ideally before the previous rebooting even begins.
- Manu: In order to have someone to help we need cashflow. That is something that has been a massive pain point over the years. I don't kno wwhat the solution for that is, I'm certainly really leaning on some of the companies here who have money and are getting something out of the event to support the event. It's hard for the board to keep sayign we need sponsorship, but there's a point where you've been participating in the community for so long and havnet financially supported it, that's a problem. To see orgs much larger to continue to not put in sponsorship. As a result it's the board and the volunteers who continue to pay the price. It's a pain point for the smaller orgs who do sponsor.

### Suggestions and committments:

- Dmitri: I was going to propose we should either offer brief tutorials at each event or designate a github helper, so if at any point during the event you have github questions or want something walked through, talk to this person.
- Joe: committment to everyone have the opportunity to be added to Signal
- Jolocom made a commitment to sponsor this event. Even after we got started they stepped up.
- Eric committed to helping us create a little automated web app to submit topic papers to github. We hope to have a page to go to to upload the paper, deal with the readme, put it in the repo. It's not a complicated workflow but we need someone to build and maintain it.
- Steven: this is the 9th rebooting, I expected more than just papers and discussions, we are all working on building solutions, the knowledge is astonishing. I really want us ot be able to demonstrate a reference application that shows the capabilities of the skills of this community, and is an illustration of all the stories and all the standards. I would love ot host a challenge to the RWOT community where the pepole that join the RWOT decide to go building stuff for that challenge. I was amazed by thes election of the papers, apart from that I would suggest not clearly thought it through but one challenge on the table with a particular use case to build a MVP as a demonstrator. I would love to coordinate and organise what is needed to do that. Will be one team, not a competition, capable of bulding that in four days. Next RWOT you pick it up and build it further. Instead of having the primer online you can bring up the tutorial and demonstrate it with the stuff being built here.
- Arthur: My committment is to share back the learning and document what might fill in the gaps for people in trying to comply with DID specs or VC specs and that type of thing.
- ??: Having the schedule on github. If someone gives me it I will put it there.
- Moses: this group has great cohesion but how can lift it to a movement? My company is building an online business university partnership, one of the classes is how to do a ted talk. We think we can teach engineers how to be good and draw an emotional response from listeniners. I'd like to donate 5 registrations for pepole here who would like to bring the ted message to the world stage.
- Dmtri: To address the request for chat channel that we can all use, taking into consideration the privacy concerns with Signal which shares phone numbers. I commit to set up a Discrord server which is pseudonymous, and open source. I'll set up and document it. In additon to our dIscourse message board. Also requests for posters like an academic conferences, not full blown, but in the spirit of the choose your own adventure session, to set up a pilot for a poster session jointly with the choose your own adventure. Creating another github issue template for posters, people submit, we put up an area to display them, creators stand by the poster for conversation.
- Joe: maybe our pre-night is a poster session.
- Eric: if anybody is interested in a discord server, I know someone who is interested in actively supporting one.
- Shannon: I want to commit that I'm going to write a why is this technology important paper for the next one to hopefully get some more insight.
- Manu: There are companies here who I want to have a conversation with about putting money in to rebooting. I'll chase that down. The other committment is to Arthur Brock, we need a DID implementation guidence document, needs to be done in the DID WG. I'm committing to getting a framework of that document outlined and hopefully it'll take on a life of its own after that.
- Bill: I look forward to joining you all at the next reboogin and before that time I will report back on my efforts to try to set up the event for Singapore in the fall of next year. This would involve site reccies, talking to sponsorship agenceis and private sector companies there and coordinating with the management team here. Hopefully we can greenlight that fall event before the spring event. I have a target of raising $25k before that time.
- Joe: at the last rebooting my committment was to stay until we get incorporated. We had some issues. We're currently incorporated and on track to be a 501(c)(4), my commitment is to push that through, get our bank account set up, and hire a virtual executive assistent to deal with incoming questions about discount codes and things that don't need me to answer.
- Christopher: I commit to mentor at least one person to try to onboard into the community. If you're new and you need mentoring to connect in with rebooting, w3c, any of these orgs, to be available to do so. I need someone to reach out to me, but we need to onboard more new people.
